152-S030.26
June 2026

JOB DESCRIPTION

JOB TITLE: BUSINESS & PERFORMANCE BUSINESS PARTNER

BAND: Band 8a

LOCATION: Sentinel House

ACCOUNTABLE TO: Director of Finance & Strategic Management

LINE MANAGER: Head of Business & Performance

KEY RELATIONSHIPS: All Service Directors; Associate/Deputy Director of Programmes & Service Development, Nursing & Quality Directorate, Finance Directorate, HR Directorate, Communication & Service Engagement Directorate, IM&T department, fellow Business & Performance Teams and the Corporate Business & Performance Teams

HOURS OF WORK: This is a full-time 37.5 hours per week. The post holder may be required to work flexibly to meet the needs of the service.

JOB PURPOSE: The role of Business & Performance Business Partner is a critical one for the Trust to ensure the organisation meets its operational and strategic objectives. The post holder forms the key link between the operational services and the Trust corporate and support directorates. Working closely with the Service Directors and professional teams, the post holder has responsibility for the business and performance of the assigned service areas. Ensuring that performance targets and strategic objectives are met including managing capacity and demand to achieve targets. Developing a strategic approach to service improvement the post holder will support process design and produce business plans/business cases to support development within the division.

MAIN DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

1. MANAGERIAL

1.1 Ensure improved quality of care, maximise efficiency of service delivery, and optimal performance and productivity in the delivery of assigned service areas by:
- ensuring pathways and processes are designed to meet operational best practice and eliminate waste, inefficiency and delay;
- ensuring pathways and processes are consistently applied in practice;
- ensuring that teams/staff engaged in the pathways are achieving maximum productivity within their available time.

1.2 Present complex performance information, trends and team/service performance against targets and thresholds at meetings involving all levels of staff (both senior management and senior clinical staff), presenting suggested actions plans, improvement initiatives etc., in order to effect improvement.

1.3 Use negotiation, persuasion and motivational techniques where differences of opinion arise (which frequently occurs) to ensure co-operational and agreement on the way forward.

1.4 Responsible for benchmarking and identifying best practice business pathways and in conjunction with clinical teams design (or re-design) best practice pathways including pioneering new initiatives and approaches.

1.5 Responsible for the business performance of assigned service areas (SLA's Contracts, Liaison etc.).

1.6 Responsible for process design/ re-design for areas within assigned service.

1.7 Responsible for the delivery of compliance targets (both nationally and locally agreed) including those relating to quality/risk and governance/performance and activity.

1.8 Responsible for ensuring that adequate, accurate, validated and useful information and data is produced, which supports decision making and management processes across the division.

1.9 To take the lead in contract negotiations as appropriate to the specialties within the assigned service, including negotiations relating to performance, information provision, activity targets and related service provision.

1.10 To lead on / contribute to the development of business cases and tender applications for provision of services, liaising closely with service directors and managers, and other support services such as Finance, N&Q and HR.

1.11 Responsible for assigned service reporting requirements whilst maintaining a consistent approach with colleagues.

1.12 Promote a matrix working arrangement, ensuring engagement, communication and consultation required to support work crossing service boundaries is achieved successfully.

2. HUMAN RESOURCES/WORKFORCE

2.1 Responsible for operational management of a team of business support and performance information staff for the post holders assigned service areas.

2.2 Direct line management responsibility for senior managers within the team; Performance Manager and Information Lead.

2.3 Ensure that there is a clear professional and managerial leadership within this structure through the coaching and support of senior managers and team, in order to create a cohesive team that is skilled, effective, engaged and highly motivated, that is able to deliver the service requirements.

2.4 Leading the development, motivation and inspiration of staff ensuring adherence to the Trust's values and behaviours.

3. FINANCE/RESOURCES

3.1 Authorised signatory for financial payments up to an agreed limit.

3.2 Contributes to the creation of, and assists in the monitoring of project / department / team budgets.

3.3 Responsible for signing timesheets, travel expenses, over time etc.

3.4 Ensure adherence to standing financial instructions and standing orders, written financial procedures and standards of business conduct are maintained.

3.5 Individual responsibility for safe keeping of own IT equipment and the office is secure when not in use.

4. POLICY & SERVICE DEVELOPMENT

4.1 Contribute to and help shape the development and implementation of the performance management and reporting strategy in line with the Trust's objectives.

4.2 Propose, contribute to and support the development of KPI's at a service, directorate and corporate level.

4.3 Develop and implement robust performance management/improvement policies and processes within the assigned service and support corporate performance management by maintaining a consistent approach.

4.4 Support the co-ordination of service plans.

4.5 Lead on / plan / contribute to service improvement initiatives as approved by the Finance & Strategic Management Directorate, often involving long term strategic change programmes which have a wide scale impact on areas outside the post holder's assigned area of remit.

5. INFORMATION / DATA RESPONSIBILITIES

5.1 Ensure systems are in place to monitor assigned service performance against national and local performance targets.

5.2 Provide a high quality information provision, interpretation and support service to meet service requirements.

5.3 Work closely with corporate and service information analysis teams to understand, interpret and use available information.

5.4 Propose, support and lead on the implementation of additional information requirements to support service or Trust targets and initiatives.

5.5 Analyse and compare a range of data from various sources, including performance, activity, budget and workforce information, to support the re-design of pathways and services to improve efficiency and the quality of patient care.

6. PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

6.1 Promote and enable in depth accurate knowledge and understanding of all services within the portfolio.

6.2 Be an expert in services/areas where the assigned service is the Trust lead.

6.3 Role modelling the Trust's values and behaviours.

6.4 Ensure effective communication and engagement is maintained across service/corporate business support & performance teams, to ensure consistency in reporting and performance management in respect of shared targets and business support processes.

6.5 Interpret national and Trust policies and make application to assigned service area, developing effective local procedures and policies for operational services.

7. GENERAL

7.1 Deputise for the Head of Business & Performance for performance related matters as required.

7.2 Other duties relating to support clinical and operational services as requested by the Head of Business & Performance.

8. ENVIRONMENTAL

8.1 The post holder will be required to concentrate for sustained periods, e.g. when compiling or interpreting complex reports and analysing statistics.

8.2 The post holder will be required to frequently impart difficult and unwelcome news to service managers and directors, and senior colleagues (e.g. where performance/compliance targets have been breached, where project milestones have not been met).

8.3 Standard keyboard use.

8.4 The postholder will be required to split their time between the Trust HQ and the service areas and will also be required to frequently travel to meet with service managers and operational areas across their assigned service.
